README.md, before:

The APEX APL Compiler
=====================

APEX compiles a subset of Dyalog APL into one of several languages, currently SISAL, SaC, and D.

Get Started
-----------

To generate the compiler from github, clone the repository, say into directory `apexgit`.
When cloning this repo, remember to also load the git submodules using either
`git submodule update --init`, or when cloning for the first time `git clone --recursive ..`.

After that, you can load APEX in Dyalog:

```apl
    cd apexgit
    ⍝ Start Dyalog APL V18.0 (or newer), downloadable from www.dyalog.com, and then
    )load wss/apex.dws
```

At this point, you should have a copy of the apex workspace, which you can
try out. The Ancillary/benchmks folder contains subfolders of benchmarks
and unit tests, including benchmksAPL, DynamicProgramming, MatrixProducts,
benchmksPerf, DeepLearning, Geophysics, UnitTests. Others are on their way.
To compile the APL code (*.aplf files) to SaC, do this:

```apl
    bm←benchmks.benchmks'Ancillary/MatrixProducts'
    z←⍪apex¨bm
    z ⍝ Names of generated SaC source code files
```
Rarely, you will need a left argument to ``apex``.
If specified, the left argument to the `apex` verb is a set of space-delimited
compiler options, e.g. `'option0=x option1=y...'`

Default options are: `targetlanguage=sac trace=0`
This disables debug tracing during compilation, and tells the
compiler to generate SaC code as its output.

The right argument is a folder name, containing the APL code
to be compiled, as a set of `*.aplf` files, each containing the
source code for one 
defined function, e.g., in `Ancillary/benchmks/benchmksAPL/iotan`, we have:

The verb main.aplf is:

```apl
    r←main;⎕IO;⎕RL;n;⎕PP;⎕PW
    ⎕IO←0
    n←100000000
    ⎕RL←16807
    ⎕PP←16
    ⎕PW←80
    r←iotan n
    ⎕←r
    ⎕←r←(r≡(n×n+1.5-0.5)÷2)-1
```
This sets some global variables, most of which are not used
in common applications, invokes iotan with the problem size, n,
then compares the result to what is should be, using Gauss' insight.

The verb iotan.aplf is:

```apl
    r←iotan n
    r←+/(1.5-0.5)+⍳n
```
It would have been written as a Dfn in this form, but Dfns had not been
invented when the benchmark was written:

```apl
    iotan←{ r←+/(1.5-0.5)+⍳⍵}
```

The funny business with the real numbers is a sloppy way to force the
result to 64-bit IEEE floating point.

The apex compiler's output is a pair of SaC source code files in the argument
folder, `Ancillary/benchmks/benchmksAPL/iotan/src`. The `iotan.sac` file will generate
a SaC module (Shared library, .so, .dll) that can be called from Dyalog APL via `⎕na`,
or from an executable SaC program, e.g, `iotan.unittest.sac`:
```
   cd src
   sac2c iotan.sac
   sac2c iotan.unittest.sac
```

Alternately, an entire set of tests can be compiled this way:

```
   cd Ancillary/benchmks/benchmksAPL
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   make
```

When compiled with `sac2c` (from www.sac-home.org), the resulting binary, when executed, will compute
the sum of the first n non-negative integers. The result (r) of executing main should be 0 if the result is correct, and 0 otherwise.

Commit message:

Add apexn.dws workspace that does not use Link. Add ctest info to README.md

README.md, after:

The APEX APL Compiler
=====================

APEX compiles a subset of Dyalog APL into one of several languages, currently SISAL, SaC, and D.

Get Started
-----------

To generate the compiler from github, clone the repository, say into directory `apexgit`.
When cloning this repo, remember to also load the git submodules using either
`git submodule update --init`, or when cloning for the first time `git clone --recursive ..`.

After that, you can load APEX in Dyalog:

```apl
    cd apexgit
    ⍝ Start Dyalog APL V18.0 (or newer), downloadable from www.dyalog.com, and then
    )load wss/apex.dws
```

At this point, you should have a copy of the apex workspace, which you can
try out. The Ancillary/benchmks folder contains subfolders of benchmarks
and unit tests, including benchmksAPL, DynamicProgramming, MatrixProducts,
benchmksPerf, DeepLearning, Geophysics, UnitTests. Others are on their way.
To compile the APL code (*.aplf files) to SaC, do this:

```apl
    bm←benchmks.benchmks'Ancillary/MatrixProducts'
    z←⍪apex¨bm
    z ⍝ Names of generated SaC source code files
```
Rarely, you will need a left argument to ``apex``.
If specified, the left argument to the `apex` verb is a set of space-delimited
compiler options, e.g. `'option0=x option1=y...'`

Default options are: `targetlanguage=sac trace=0`
This disables debug tracing during compilation, and tells the
compiler to generate SaC code as its output.

The right argument is a folder name, containing the APL code
to be compiled, as a set of `*.aplf` files, each containing the
source code for one 
defined function, e.g., in `Ancillary/benchmks/benchmksAPL/iotan`, we have:

The verb main.aplf is:

```apl
    r←main;⎕IO;⎕RL;n;⎕PP;⎕PW
    ⎕IO←0
    n←100000000
    ⎕RL←16807
    ⎕PP←16
    ⎕PW←80
    r←iotan n
    ⎕←r
    ⎕←r←(r≡(n×n+1.5-0.5)÷2)-1
```
This sets some global variables, most of which are not used
in common applications, invokes iotan with the problem size, n,
then compares the result to what is should be, using Gauss' insight.

The verb iotan.aplf is:

```apl
    r←iotan n
    r←+/(1.5-0.5)+⍳n
```
It would have been written as a Dfn in this form, but Dfns had not been
invented when the benchmark was written:

```apl
    iotan←{ r←+/(1.5-0.5)+⍳⍵}
```

The funny business with the real numbers is a sloppy way to force the
result to 64-bit IEEE floating point.

The apex compiler's output is a pair of SaC source code files in the argument
folder, `Ancillary/benchmks/benchmksAPL/iotan/src`. The `iotan.sac` file will generate
a SaC module (Shared library, .so, .dll) that can be called from Dyalog APL via `⎕na`,
or from an executable SaC program, e.g, `iotan.unittest.sac`:
```
   cd src
   sac2c iotan.sac
   sac2c iotan.unittest.sac
```

Alternately, an entire set of tests can be compiled this way, using, e.g., 
7 tasks:

```
   cd Ancillary/benchmks/benchmksAPL
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   make -j 7
```

When compiled with `sac2c` (from www.sac-home.org), the resulting binary, when executed, will compute
the sum of the first n non-negative integers. The result (r) of executing main should be 0 
if the result is correct, and 0 otherwise.

You can use ctest to run all tests automatically:

```
   ctest -j 7
```
